First, I'm going to show you how to bootstrap an application using the Spring Initializr,
then I'm going to show you the required annotations for developing a RESTful API.
Then I'm going to show you how to deploy and test that API.
In this case study,
we are developing an API that returns a list of locations.
Let's get started.
In this case study,
we are developing a simple API that returns a list of airport locations.
You can clone the code from the link posted in
the course notes or you can just follow along with me.
I've navigated to the Spring Initializr website so it's start.spring.io.
Spring Initializr allows you to quickly generate the base code needed
for your project and it includes all of the dependencies you need in the Maven POM file.
You can also use this Spring Initializr feature from a plug-in in your IDE,
but in this case we're just going to the website.
We are going to start by selecting a Maven project,
Java as the language,
just use the most recent defaulted version here.
For the project metadata let's make it more specific.
Let's call this Udacity and for the artifact let's call it Bootstrap.
Here this dependencies section is very
important and it's really neat because it allows you to search for
the different dependencies that you need and then it will automatically include
those dependencies in the Maven POM file when it generates your source code.
So because we are doing a RESTful API,
we need to include web.
Click on it here and now it shows up under the selected dependencies section.
This starter dependency is used for
web application development and it automatically adds libraries like Spring MVC,
RESTful, Tomcat, Jackson, et cetera.
We'll talk a lot about these different dependencies later on.
To actually store the data we are using an H2 in-memory database,
so search for H2 and select it.
It appears on the right-hand side.
Lastly, we need JPA,
so Spring Data JPA.
This starter dependency includes JDBC,
Hibernate, JPA, et cetera.
Mainly features that we need in order to interact with a database.
At this point I've included the three dependencies that we need.
You can click on Generate project and it will generate this bootstrap.zip file.
I've already generated the file, downloaded it,
unzipped it and opened it in my IntelliJ IDEA.
So let's navigate to IntelliJ.
The first file that it automatically generated for us is this Maven POM file.
So let's see what's included.
JPA as expected, the Spring Boot Starter web as expected,
the H2 database and it also automatically includes
the Spring Boot starter tests because anytime
you write code you should write test cases as well.
Now, if you're not familiar with H2,
it's an open source database written in Java.
It's in-memory which means that the data is stored in memory and not persisted to disk.
Now, H2 is great for development environments,
doing small simple POC's,
it's never really used in a production environment.
Now, the nice thing is that H2 can be easily integrated with spring
and it also provides a useful admin tool called the console that we'll look at.
The next file to open here is the application.properties.
I've just added some configuration for the H2 in memory database.
I'm enabling the console and I'm setting the path as flash H2.
Then I'm adding the database URL here and its location tracker.